Story Recapped here.
Today, I'm going to explain a thriller and
sci-fi film called "Sunshine."
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
By 2050, the sun's light has started to fade
due to a dark energy destabilizing the star.
With the threat of extinction, the Icarus
Project was launched to reignite the sun,
but the mission failed.
Seven years later, another crew was sent to
restart the sun by delivering a stellar bomb,
with a mass equivalent to Manhattan Island.
After sixteen months of space travel, Icarus
2, which consists of a crew of eight scientists,
arrives close to the dead zone, where radio
communications to Earth are no longer possible.
Dr. Searle, the ship's psych counselor and
medical officer, asks the ship's artificial
intelligence system, Icarus, to filter down
the ship's observation room portal, so he
could see as much of the sun's brightness
without burning his eyes.
Icarus tells him that the current brightness
is at two percent.
He asks the computer to show him four percent,
but Icarus warns him that it will cause irreversible
damage to his retina.
The computer recommends observing the sun
at 3.1 percent but only for 30 seconds.
Searle wears his sunglasses and sets the filter
to the settings recommended by the A.I.
When the rays hit his eyes, he's overwhelmed
by the brightness, but when it's over, he
laughs in exhilaration.
He recommends the same activity to the other
crew members, saying it's like taking a shower
in light.
Kaneda, the ship's captain, tells the crew
that the solar wind reading is getting much
higher as they approach the sun, making it
more difficult to communicate with Earth.
They're flying into the dead zone seven days
earlier than anticipated, so he tells the
crew to send their final message to Earth
within the next 24 hours.
Robert Capa, the physicist responsible for
the stellar payload's delivery and detonation,
enters the communications room to send a message
to his parents.
He makes several attempts because he has difficulty
finding the right words.
Capa reminds them that it will take eight
minutes for the sun's light to reach the Earth.
They'll eventually know that the mission succeeded
when they wake up one morning and see that
the sky is a little brighter than usual.
Corazon, the ship's botanist maintaining the
oxygen garden, walks into the observation
room to report to Kaneda, who appears to be
trying Searle's recommendation.
Corazon reports that they have enough oxygen
reserves to deliver their stellar payload.
She senses that Kaneda is thinking of Icarus
1, so she tells him that she doesn't think
that the first mission failed due to the lack
of oxygen.
Elsewhere in the ship, a fight breaks out
between Capa and Mace, the ship's engineer,
because Capa had taken too long inside the
communications room.
Mace is furious because the interference in
the atmosphere is preventing his message from
reaching Earth.
Harvey, the communications specialist, and
Trey, the ship's navigator, burst into the
room to break up the fight.
Mace visits Searle in his room and tells him
that he has lost track of his mind due to
the length of time they have spent on the
ship.
Searle tells Mace to spend two hours in the
Earth room so he could calm down.
In the Earth room, he watches the large waves
splashing against the seawall as three women
are having fun trying to stand up against
the force of the tide.
When Icarus brings him to a forest, he asks
the computer to bring back the waves because
it makes him feel peaceful.
Later on, Mace approaches Capa to apologize.
Meanwhile, Kaneda has begun reviewing the
video logs of Captain Pinbacker, who led Icarus
1.
Pinbacker informs Moon Base that the ship
has encountered a minor asteroid storm that
caused punctures to the ship.
Pinbacker notes that the damage to their ship
was nothing serious, and they were able to
repair it.
The captain went on to say that he was able
to witness the asteroid hitting their ship
from the observation room.
Kaneda is puzzled when he hears Pinbacker
describe it as a beautiful event.
Cassie, the pilot, suddenly calls the crew's
attention to report that they've come close
to Mercury.
The crew members gather around the observation
room and watch in awe as the planet slowly
orbits the sun.
As the ship flies over Mercury, Harvey suddenly
hears a transmission that seems to be originating
from Icarus 1.
Harvey discloses that it's the ship's distress
beacon.
Corazon says that the crew could still be
alive because their oxygen is self-replenishing,
and their water is recycled.
The first team only have food that could last
for three years, but Kaneda points out that
the ship might have some survivors if others
have perished.
The ship's A.I. pinpoints the beacon's location,
revealing that they almost made it to the
sun.
They learn that they are going to pass by
the ship within 10 or 15 thousand miles.
Trey informs them that he could adjust their
trajectory to fly to Icarus 1, but Mace dissuades
the crew, saying they need to complete their
mission to reignite the sun.
Searle agrees that there is nothing more important
than their primary goal, but he argues that
they might have more chances of succeeding
if they find Icarus 1.
If they fly to the ship's location, they'll
have two bombs to give them a better chance
at reactivating the sun.
Mace and Trey point out that there are risks
in Searle's suggestion because they still
don't know what caused the first mission to
fail.
Searle asks the crew to determine if the risk
of the detour would outweigh the benefits
of having another bomb.
Mace suggests a vote, but Kaneda tells them
that the decision should fall on the most
qualified person on the ship.
Capa is perturbed that the decision falls
on him.
Capa runs the simulations to look at their
chances of succeeding, but the A.I. tells
him that there's not enough information to
make an accurate prediction.
Capa tells Kaneda that the best he can do
is make an educated guess.
Capa recommends going to Icarus 1, noting
that they've already mined the last of Earth's
fissile materials to create the bomb.
If they fail, they won't be able to create
another payload.
When Capa wakes up from a bad dream, Cassie
surmises that he's dreaming about the surface
of the sun.
She confesses that it's the only thing she
sees when she closes her eyes.
While Cassie reassures Capa about the decision
he made, they suddenly hear the alarms blare
throughout the ship.
When they get to the bridge, Trey tells them
that he made a mistake when he changed the
ship's trajectory to take the detour to Icarus
1.
Although coordinates were accurate, he had
forgotten to adjust the shields that protect
the ship from the sun's heat.
Kaneda asks the crew to determine the extent
of the damage to the ship, but the sensors
outside are no longer working, so they have
to go out to see what was affected by the
mishap.
Kaneda volunteers, but Harvey notes that it's
a two-person job.
Mace insists on sending Capa out because he
thinks that the tragic error was the result
of Capa's decision to take the detour.
Capa agrees to go, so he heads to the airlock
to don an E.V.A. suit.
Cassie instructs Icarus to rotate the ship
so that the damage would face away from the
sun.
Harvey warns them that two communications
towers will be lost if the ship turns.
Mace says that the towers are of no use to
them at the moment, but Harvey points out
that they need them to go home.
Cassie hints that they'll figure something
out after they complete their mission.
As the ship rotates, Icarus reports that comms
towers 3 and 4 have been severely damaged.
Harvey tells the computer to turn off the
alarm and the sensors of the towers.
Capa and Kaneda investigate the damaged area
on the shield and finds that there are four
busted panels.
Corazon cautions Capa to calm down because
he's using his oxygen too fast.
Later on, Kaneda reports that they have closed
the first panel.
The team rejoices when Kaneda notifies them
that they can repair the damages.
While the ship turns, a beam of light reflecting
from the burning comms tower causes a fire
on the oxygen garden.
With three panels to go, Kaneda is alarmed
by the ship's sudden movements.
Corazon soon realizes that the ship is venting
oxygen.
Cassie tries to control the ship manually,
but the A.I. refuses.
Icarus reports that the override protocol
to allow manual flight control has been removed
because the mission is in jeopardy.
When Cassie asks for the reason, Icarus informs
them that there's a fire in the oxygen garden.
Corazon runs to the garden as Cassie seals
the doors to prevent the fire from breaking
out.
Cassie tells Capa and Kaneda to go back to
the airlock, but Kaneda refuses.
He tells them that the ship will burn if the
shields are not repaired.
Trey points out that Kaneda and Capa will
be incinerated if they remain outside while
the ship rotates, so Cassie uses the emergency
command code to override the computer.
However, the protocol requires another human
confirmation, but Mace refuses to approve
the override.
When Harvey confirms the override command,
Mace tells Icarus to take back control of
the ship and asks the captain to back him
up.
Kaneda agrees with Mace, reminding the crew
that their priority is to secure the payload.
The captain then instructs Icarus to resume
the emergency procedure to protect the ship.
Corazon tries to get into the oxygen garden
as it burns, but Icarus tells her that a superior
comms officer has sealed it.
Icarus notes that there is a 60 percent chance
of failing to contain the fire and a 75 percent
chance of collateral damage to their life-support
systems.
Mace suggests flooding the section with oxygen
to trigger a flashover and extinguish the
fire.
They open the oxygen tanks, causing the room
to blow up.
Kaneda tells Capa to go back inside, saying
he can finish the job on his own.
Capa walks to the edge of the shield as Kaneda
continues to repair the panels.
Capa tells the captain to move as the ship
turns and exposes the shield to the sunlight.
Moments later, Kaneda informs the team that
the final panel has been sealed.
Knowing that he won't make it to the edge,
Kaneda decides to wait for the sun's powerful
rays to hit him.
Searle, curious about the sun's radiance,
repeatedly asks Kaneda what he sees as he
burns.
Capa hides beneath the shield until the rotation
is completed.
Trey blames himself for losing the captain,
so Searle diagnoses him as a suicide risk
and sedates him.
Harvey assumes command of the ship and reports
that the shields and the payload are intact.
He informs the crew that the garden is totally
destroyed, so they don't have enough oxygen
to deliver the payload.
He asserts that the team has no choice but
to go to Icarus 1 to complete the mission.
Corazon tells Cassie and Mace that there is
enough oxygen to get them to the delivery
point, but not for seven people.
She says they'll have to lose three crew members
to get them to the sun.
Cassie goes to Capa's room and expresses her
fear that they're probably going to die like
the crew of Icarus 1.
She asks Capa if he's afraid.
Capa tells her that he's not because he thinks
birthing a new star from the dying sun would
be wonderful.
Upon reaching Icarus 1, Searle, Capa, Harvey,
and Mace enter the ship to inspect it.
The crew decides to split up to cover more
area.
Harvey orders Mace to get to the flight deck
to find out if the ship can still fly.
He orders Capa to go directly to the payload
and asks Searle to check the social area and
the quarters.
Harvey heads to the garden and discovers that
the plants have grown splendidly.
He's ecstatic that they'll have enough oxygen
for the mission.
Corazon is delighted to hear about Harvey's
discovery as well.
Upon reaching the bridge, Mace learns that
the ship is mostly functional, but he can't
get the flight computer to work.
While Searle inspects the kitchen, he finds
out that the ship still has enough food.
As Mace examines the equipment at the bridge,
a video log of Pinbacker suddenly appears
on one of the screens.
With burn marks all over his face, Pinbacker
discloses that the crew has abandoned the
mission, believing that their attempt to reignite
the sun is foolish.
Pinbacker rambles that it's not their place
to challenge God if he decides that humanity
should die.
Mace learns that the transmission was made
six and a half years ago.
Corazon notes that Icarus 1 was supposed to
be delivering the bomb by that time.
Capa soon notifies the team that the payload
is fully operational.
Cassie is pleased to hear the news, thinking
that they'll be able to fly Icarus 1 to the
delivery point.
Mace, however, tells them that they can't
fly the ship because the mainframe coolant
has failed.
He further reveals that it was an act of sabotage.
Meanwhile, Searl has found the remains of
the crew in the observation room.
He concludes from the way they are positioned
that the previous team had burned themselves
by turning off the observation deck's filter.
As he inspects the burned corpses, the airlock
connecting the two ships breaks apart.
The crew members at Icarus 1 scramble to go
back to the airlock.
Cassie tells them that she can hold the position
of Icarus 2, but the ship won't be able to
dock again.
In addition to the mishap at the airlock,
Icarus 1 is also losing atmosphere due to
a breach.
Mace finds an E.V.A. suit and tells them at
least one of them will survive.
He insists that Capa should wear it because
the other members are low priority.
Harvey objects, saying that the ship will
need a captain to keep the mission together.
Searle argues that Capa is the only one capable
of detonating the payload, so they have no
choice.
Harvey orders Capa to remove the suit, hinting
that he'll help them when he returns to Icarus
2.
However, Mace points out that they won't be
able to restore pressure when they break the
seal to the airlock.
Mace soon realizes that Capa will be ejected
from Icarus 1 once they open the airlock,
so he tells Cassie to move Icarus 2 as close
to their ship as possible.
Mace is hoping to join Capa when he ejects
even without a suit.
Corazon warns him that they'll freeze to death,
but Mace thinks that it's still worth a try.
Searle reminds them that the computer's down,
so one of them has to operate the seal manually.
Harvey thinks that they'll force him to stay
behind, but Searle volunteers.
Cassie soon notifies them that the two ships
are already aligned.
Mace tells Harvey to keep his eyes shut and
slowly exhale when they get outside.
When Searle opens up the airlock, the three
crew members are propelled toward Icarus 2.
Not long, Capa reaches the airlock of Icarus
2.
When he sees Mace drift away, he grabs him
and flings him inside.
Capa sees Harvey, but he has drifted too far.
The A.I. detects the crew members inside and
seals the outer airlock door.
As Harvey floats in space, he opens his eyes
in shock as he runs out of air and freezes
to death.
Back in the ship, Corazon and Cassie rush
to the airlock to cover Mace with thick blankets
to warm him up.
As Icarus 2 leaves, Searle enter's Icarus
1's observation room to watch the sun's full
brightness.
He sits beside the bodies of the first team
and waits for the rays to burn through the
observation deck.
Later, Mace finds out from Icarus' activity
file that there was no malfunction in the
airlock hardware.
They conclude that the airlock has been separated
manually but couldn't figure out who did it
as Corazon was with Cassie on the flight deck
while the other members were on Icarus I.
Mace suspects that it was Trey, but Capa points
out that he could hardly walk due to the medication
Searle gave him, and he sleeps 23 hours a
day.
Corazon notes that there is another issue
they have to deal with aside from the disaster
at the airlock.
She points out that they lost two people consuming
oxygen when Searle and Harvey died.
If Trey dies, they will have enough oxygen
to make it to the delivery point.
Repulsed by the idea, Capa hints that what
happened at Icarus 1 is now happening on their
ship.
Mace volunteers to kill Trey, but he says
he will not do it unless they vote unanimously.
Capa and Corazon vote to eliminate Trey, but
Cassie refuses.
Mace apologizes to Cassie, hinting that he'll
go ahead and kill Trey despite her vote.
Cassie asks him to make it easy for Trey.
Mace grabs a surgical knife and goes to Trey's
pod but finds out that he's not there.
He checks another room and discovers Trey
on the floor with a deep cut on his wrist.
Mace blames Capa for all the deaths in the
ship, saying no one would've died if they
didn't divert the mission.
He dips his hand on Trey's blood and wipes
it on Capa's hand.
Capa gets furious and slams Mace against the
wall.
After struggling for a few moments, the two
men run out of breath, so they stop fighting.
Corazon tells them that they need to limit
their exertions because the air is low.
Later on, Capa tells Icarus to run the biometric
signs of the crew members and check oxygen
consumption.
Icarus discloses that they don't have enough
oxygen to deliver the payload because they
will die in 16 hours, and it will take 19
hours till they get to the delivery point.
He points out to the A.I. that Corazon was
certain they have enough oxygen for four crew
members.
The computer, however, reveals that there
are five people on board the ship.
Icarus can't identify the fifth person, but
it points out that the unknown crew member
is in the observation room.
When Capa reaches the observation room, he
sees a man with severe burns all over his
body.
Capa recalls the last video log he saw from
Icarus 1 and realizes that he's Pinbacker.
As Capa stares at him in horror, Pinbacker
slashes him on the chest with a knife.
Capa runs out of the room and shuts down the
filter of the observation deck.
He calls out to other crew members, but no
one answers.
Pinbacker runs after Capa, so he locks himself
into the inner airlock.
Pinbacker pulls a lever on the door to keep
Capa locked inside.
Pinbacker then goes to the mainframe room
to remove the computer panels from the coolant.
Meanwhile, Corazon visits the garden and sees
a tiny plant growing.
Corazon becomes more hopeful about their mission
and tells Icarus to patch her to Mace.
However, Pinbacker quietly approaches her
and stabs her in the back.
Mace soon notices that Icarus is no longer
responding.
Cassie wakes up in her room and senses that
someone is with her.
When she sees Pinbacker at the other end of
the hall, she runs to the front of the ship
and hides.
Mace turns on the monitors and sees Capa in
the inner airlock, so he instructs Capa to
use the communications link in the E.V.A.
helmet.
Capa tells him that Pinbacker is on board
to sabotage their mission.
When Mace arrives at the mainframe room, he
discovers that the computers have been removed
from the coolant.
He tries to lower the mainframe, but he discovers
that the mechanism is disabled.
Mace decides to dive into the coolant so he
can pull the mainframe down manually.
Mace manages to lower the first mainframe,
causing the lights to turn back on.
While looking for Cassie, Pinbacker is agitated
by the light and punches his hand through
a glass wall.
When he grabs Trey's corpse, Cassie stabs
him.
Cassie runs away as Pinbacker screams in pain.
Mace drops another mainframe, but he starts
to shiver due to the low temperature of the
liquid coolant.
Cassie ends up in the payload room while running
from Pinbacker.
Mace prompts Capa to break the ship out of
orbit manually by separating the payload.
He then tells Capa that he has to open the
airlock and detonate the bomb.
As he lowers the third mainframe, his leg
gets caught in the mechanism.
Mace struggles to get out, but he freezes
to death.
Capa wears an E.V.A. suit and burns the inner
door to escape the airlock.
After releasing the door of the outer airlock,
he holds on tight to the metal bars as loose
parts of the ship fly out, along with Corazon's
body.
When he reaches the mainframe room, he finds
Mace lying frozen on the ground.
He proceeds to detach the payload from the
ship and make his way to the airlock.
He trips on his way out and struggles to get
up due to the weight of the E.V.A. suit, but
he eventually manages to propel himself to
the bomb as it separates from the ship.
When he reaches the bomb, the propulsion sets
Icarus 2 ablaze.
Inside the payload, he takes off his E.V.A.
suit and unlocks the door to the payload unit
to pilot the bomb into the sun manually.
When he sees Cassie, he asks her if Pinbacker
is with them.
Pinbacker suddenly grabs Capa by the neck,
telling him that God asked him to take all
of humanity to heaven.
As the two struggle, Cassie attacks Pinbacker,
ripping the skin off his hands.
After breaking free from Pinbacker's grip,
Cassie and Capa slide across the payload.
Cassie tells Capa to finish the mission, so
he runs to the payload's control room and
ignites the bomb manually.
Capa watches the payload begin to light up
as it enters the surface of the sun.
As the flames burst into the room, Capa reaches
out to the fire and accepts his death, knowing
that he had succeeded in his mission.
Back on Earth, Capa's sister watches his last
transmission, where he asks her to kiss her
kids for him.
She and her children watch the sun's rays
pierce through the clouds and shine across
the frozen Sydney Harbour.